= netvbox


== Description
netvbox is a {ruby gem}[https://rubygems.org/gems/netvbox] designed for limited
administration of VirtualBox VMs on networked machines in a Linux environment.

The original use case was for testing {Chef}[http://www.opscode.com/chef/]
recipes without needing (or wanting) to provision (and pay for) cloud resources
(e.g. Amazon EC2). Take a few spare machines, install VirtualBox on each, create
some snapshots, and you're ready to go.

netvbox maintains a list of snapshots for VirtualBox VMs, and can easily load
all snapshots, power off all VMs, and display VM status information. VMs can
be added and removed from the list via the add and remove subcommands.

=== VM sets
netvbox can manage sets of VirtualBox VMs. You can think of these sets much
like {rvm}[http://beginrescueend.com/] gemsets. Say, for example, that you have
5 VirtualBox VMs on various hosts on the network. Sometimes you might want to
clean and reinstall things on all 5 VMs. Other times you wish to only reload
snapshots on 3 VMs. You can create VM sets to manage sets of VirtualBox VMs, and
switch between sets on the fly. See VM set sub-commands in the sub-commands
section.


== Sub-commands
netvbox uses sub-commands. Below is the help listing.

  SUB-COMMANDS
      add <ssh host> <username> <password> <vm name> <snapshot name>
          adds a vm snapshot on the specified host
      list
          lists vm snapshots
      listips
          lists ip addresses of vms with guest additions installed
      load
          loads vm snapshots
      poweroff
          powers off all vms
      remove <ssh host> <username> <vm name>
          removes snapshot of specified vm from management
      status
           shows status of vms
  
  VM SET SUB-COMMANDS
      createset <set name>
           creates a vm set with the specified name
      currentset
           shows the current vm set in use
      listsets
           lists all vm sets
      removeset <set name>
           removes the vm set with the specified name
      usedefaultset
           uses the default vm set
      useset <set name>
           uses the vm set with the specified name
  
  * Tip: You will be prompted for input if you leave out sub-command
         arguments (e.g. netvbox add)


== Changelog
*0.0.6*
- Breaking change: sub-command, remove, no longer requires snapshot name
